Steps:
1. search "Visual studio" in google chorme and click download from the visualstudio.microsoft.com (community)
2. click that downloaded file and download it.
3. many tools will be shown. Tick mark the python development tool, that will install Python 3.7.8. click install. It will take some time. also tick Desktop development with c++.
4. To verify that installation is done. check in the main menu, search for IDLE, you will see IDLE(Python 3.7 64 bit).
5. Right click on that and open file location.
6.Again right click and open file location, here you can see, it is inside microsoft visual studio.  
7. Set environmentalk variable for this. Right click "This PC", go to properties, go to advanced system settings. click environment variable --> path , click new and paste that folder location. and to install libraries for python, go to script folder also and add this path to enviroment variable.
8. Click move up button to position this in the correct places. first python path then script path. click all ok of all the pop up windows.
9. To check that , go to cmd and type python, it will show the current version i.e. 3,7 .

Before installing openCV, we need to install  cmake, that is helpful to build the libraries and installation files.

1. In chrome, type cmake then download.
here lot of versions are available. go to CMake 3.4 or lower first (cmake-3.18.4-win64-x64.msi). its better way to install it rather than go to zip file and extract and install. 

2. open from the main menu search, cmake-gui. set the envirnomental path also for cmake
3. open cmd and run as administrator
pip install opencv-python (this will install openCV and numpy also)
check it by typing python : it will show the version
then import cv2 and import numpy. 

We need some libraries to install for computer vision
1. scikit-image
2. PIL: for heavy images like satelite images (opening, manipulating)
3. OpenCV
4. Mahotas: for parsing implemented in c++
5. SciPy: Scientific python (linear algebra, integration etc)
6. NumPy: Numerical python 
7. Matplotlib

Again open cmd and run as administrator
1. pip install wheel
% libraries are compressed as whl file: wheel file
2. pip install matplotlib (many library it installs)
3. pip install imutils. 
4. pip install scipy

Check all these by importing all
python
import cv2
import numpy
import matplotlib
import scipy

